these pea-sized vessels are the work of
another kind of wasp a potter wasp once
again saliva is an important ingredient
it prevents the mud from crumbling when
it dries with jaws scissoring away on
the inside to keep the mud properly
mixed and fluid and front legs checking
the thickness of the wall on the other
she lays the mud round and round in a
strip using a technique that human
Potter's call coiling
[Music]
when the main body of the pot is
finished this greatly accomplished
Potter brings another ball of mud and
adds a final and most elegant Farish
[Music]
in goes an egg
now the cells must be provisioned a
potter wasp doesn't feed her larvae on
chewed bodies nor does she supply honey
she gives it living food a caterpillar
paralyzed by her sting the lippert built
so carefully around the entrance helps
to guide it in
[Music]
the mouth of the pot will then be sealed
with a clay pellet and the lip removed
the lava having eaten its caterpillar
and turned into an adult emerges by
breaking through the side of the pot but
although abandoned the tough pots
survived for several years
you